Security attacks
are on the rise, and
new vulnerabilities
are exploited
and discovered every week.
No matter how prepared
an organization
may be in the event
of a security attack,
at some point
something goes wrong.
Whether it's a data
breach, ransomware,
or a simple mistake
made by an employee,
incidents happen. And it's up to
security professionals
like you to
effectively respond to
security incidents.
Hello and welcome to the course!
I'm Dave, and I'm a Principal
Security Strategist
for Google Cloud.
I have 20 years of experience
as a security
practitioner and leader.
Over the past eight years,
I've worked at industry-leading
security vendors like Fortinet,
Splunk, and Google,
where I developed
a specialty in
security analytics.
I have a passion for
helping analysts develop
the skills necessary to
succeed in their careers.
I'm so happy you're here.
You've done a great job so far.
You've learned a lot
about security concepts,
best practices, and types
of security attacks.
Now in this course, we'll
focus on incident detection,
analysis, and response.
You'll have the
opportunity to apply
your learning using
tools such as tcpdump,
Wireshark, Suricata,
Splunk, and Chronicle.
By the end of this course,
you'll have an
in-depth understanding
of incident response.
First, you'll learn about
the incident response
lifecycle and how
incident response
teams work together.
You'll also learn about
the types of tools used in
detection and response,
including documentation.
You'll also be given your own
incident handler's journal
that you'll use during
your investigations.
Next, you'll apply
your knowledge and
networking in Linux to
monitor and analyze
network traffic using
packet sniffers
like Wireshark and tcpdump
to capture and
analyze packets for
potential indicators
of security incidents.
Then, you'll become familiar
with the common processes and
procedures used during incident
detection and response.
You'll learn how to use
investigative tools to
analyze and verify incidents
and produce documentation.
Finally, you'll learn how to
interpret logs and alerts.
You'll learn how detection tools
produce logs and how these logs
are analyzed in security
information and event
management tools.
Ready to begin?
Let's get started!